Computational experiment

1. The experiment explores the effect of fitting a "wrong" model to data
(e.g. Gompertz model to data generated by Logistic equation) and agreement between 
the two models applied to the same data with regard to maximum growth rate (G) and
growth duration (dT). 


2. For each growth model (Logistic or Gompertz) "incomplete" chunks of curves 
are generated. Each chunk starts at 5% of the eventual saturation level and
ends at the given fraction of the saturation level (e.g. 50%). Then the other 
growth model (Gompertz or Logistic respectively) is fitted to the chunk.
G (maximum growth rate) and dT (growth duration, time from 10% to 90% of 
the saturation level) are calculated using the fitted parameters and compared to 
G and dT of the original model used to generate the data. The results are exported 
to files:

exp_clean_log.csv – for Logistic data fitted as Gompertz

exp_clean_gmp.csv – for Gompertz data filled as Logistic


3. Data format (columns in the files):

Level – cutoff level of the generated data (e.g 0.3 – 30% of the eventual
saturation level)

G.S – G (maximum growth rate) of the Logistic model (original or fitted, depending on 
the file)

G.G – G (maximum growth rate) of the Gompertz model (original or fitted, depending on 
the file)

L.S – saturation level of the Logistic model

L.G – saturation level of the Gompertz model   

dT.S – growth duration of the Logistic model

dT.G – growth duration of the Gompertz model

G.Rel – relative difference between G for the two models (the greater value divided by 
the lesser one)

dT.Rel - relative difference between dT for the two models (the greater value divided by 
the lesser one)


4. The experiment is repeated with random noise added to the generated data (+/- 5% of 
the respective value) with 100 runs for each cutoff level. Both models (Logistic and 
Gompertz)are fitted to the data and their G and dT are compared. The results are exported 
to files:

exp_random_log.csv – for original data generated with Logistic model  

exp_random_gmp.csv – for original data generated with Gompertz model  


5. Data format (columns in the files):

Level – cutoff level of the generated data (e.g 0.3 – 30% of the eventual
saturation level)

G.0 - G (maximum growth rate) of the original model used to generate data 
(without random noise)

G.S – G (maximum growth rate) of the fitted Logistic model 

G.G – G (maximum growth rate) of the fitted Gompertz model

G.0 - saturation level of the original model used to generate data 
(without random noise)

L.S – saturation level of the fitted Logistic model

L.G – saturation level of the fitted Gompertz model   

G.0 - growth duration of the original model used to generate data 
(without random noise)

dT.S – growth duration of the fitted Logistic model

dT.G – growth duration of the fitted Gompertz model

G.Rel – relative difference between G for the two fitted models
(the greater value divided by the lesser one)

dT.Rel - relative difference between dT for the two models 
(the greater value divided by the lesser one)